Elon Musk Is Buying Even More Tesla Stock 
https://www.marketwatch.com/articles/elon-musk-is-buying-even-more-tesla-stock-1539785532?mod=mw_quote_news
TSLA
 
                    +1.18%
TROW
 
                    -1.36%
 
It’s not exactly taking the company private at $420 a share—but Elon Musk is poised to own more of Tesla soon.  In a Wednesday filling with the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
        Tesla
       (TSLA) said that Musk, its chief executive and soon-to-be-ex-chairman, plans to buy $20 million of the company’s stock, issued by the company, at market prices “during the next open trading window.”
The purchase will deepen Musk’s already substantial stake in Tesla—though perhaps not by too much, in a mathematical sense. He recently owned some 33.7 million shares, according to FactSet, or nearly 20% of the company’s outstanding stock. Based on Tuesday’s closing prices, he’d acquire roughly 72,000 more. 
Musk is Tesla’s biggest shareholder by far. Earlier this month, 
        T. Rowe Price Group
       (TROW) disclosed that it bought 5.5 million shares of the company in the third quarter, bringing its stake to more than 10%—and making it the new number-two outside owner, after Musk and just ahead of Baillie Gifford. (Ed Lin covered the T. Rowe Price news.) What’s another $20 million? Musk, as well as the company itself, also agreed to pay that much in fines to settle securities fraud charges with the SEC in connection with his August tweet that claimed the funding to take the company private at $420 per share was “secured.” That didn’t happen, and the shares sank. 
Recommended Reading  Tesla CEO Elon Musk Is Wrong About Short Sellers  Now Only Elon Musk Owns More Tesla Stock Than T. Rowe Price  Elon Musk’s Tesla Has the Right Stuff to Win Long Term, Analyst Says 
That settlement, which a judge approved Tuesday, means Musk will be replaced as chairman for at least 3 years; two new independent directors will join the board; and new controls and oversight governing Musk’s communications with the public regarding the company will be put in place.  Musk’s new share purchase is “separate and apart from the settlement,” Tesla said in its filing.  Tesla shares, down nearly 13% in 2018, finished Wednesday up about 1.7%.  This story has been updated since it was first published to reflect share price movement.  Corrections & Amplifications Elon Musk owns 33.7 million shares of Tesla. An earlier version of this article incorrectly said that he owned 42.8 million shares. Email David Marino-Nachison at david.marino-nachison@barrons.com. Follow him at @marinonachison and follow Barron’s Next at @barronsnext.           
